[question?]How would you like to build native video apps for iOS devices?

[intro]
Hi, I'm Jeff Doktor, a learning specialist at Brightcove. In this video, you will learn about the Policy API; what it is and when you would use it. The Policy API is one of several platform APIs. Be sure to check out the other APIs that are available to you. Let's take a quick look at the Policy API.

[slides]
The Policy API is used to create and get the configuration details for a Policy Key.
Let's first learn about the Policy Key.
The Policy Key is used with the Playback API to retrieve video and playlist content from your Video Cloud library.

Policy Keys are read only.
They can be used to limit access to your video content based on:
account
domain restrictions
or geographic restrictions

A search-enabled Policy Key allows you to search your videos on the Playback API and then sort and page through the results.


[show Policy API landing page]
https://support.brightcove.com/policy-api
The documentation for the Policy API can be found on the Brightcove Support site.
From the documentation home page, select the quick link for the Policy API.

On the Policy API landing page, you will find documentation, including an overview, a quick start, and a guide for how to get the Policy Key from a player in your Brightcove account.
There is also a complete reference for the API.

Let's look at the Policy Keys from players document.
[Policy Keys]
https://support.brightcove.com/policy-keys
Because a Policy Key is automatically generated when you create a Brightcove Player, you can get the key from the player configuration details.
Keep in mind that Policy Keys automatically generated for new Brightcove Players are not search-enabled.

[return to Policy API landing page]
Now, let's look at the Quick Start for the Policy API.

[Quick Start Policy API]
https://support.brightcove.com/quick-start-policy-api
The Quick Start includes a section that explains how to get your credentials needed for accessing the Policy API.
There is also a sample app for creating a simple Policy Key.
You can provide your information for Account Id, Client Id and Client Secret, and then create a Policy Key for your account.

Remember, to perform video searches from the Playback API, you will need a search-enabled Policy Key.

I am leaving the default input values and selecting the Create the Policy Key button.
Here, we can see that a new Policy Key has been created in the Brightcove sample account.

For more details, refer to the Brightcove support documents.
Now, you are ready to experiment on your own with the Policy API.
